# **`Title`**: *How to be a great software engineer*

[TOC]

## Thesis 

What is the Argument ? How does it relate to JavaScript?

What makes a good Software Engineer is Philosophy. I’ll be using JavaScript Examples

1. “Code what you Know”
2. “Dynamic Learning”
3. “Fact Check”
4. “Rabbit Hole”
5. “Pen to Paper”
6. “Failure”
7. “Health”

Conclusion “Create you own Philosophies”



### How to Become a Better Software Engineer with JavaScript

What is the Argument? How does it relate to JavaScript?

#### Introduction

At a distance it the solution for improving your programming skills is to just keep programming every day and keep learning and it's true. When you actively pursue something it is not only inevitable to become better through your pursuit that is just a fact. However, especially in software development, optimization is important as it is better to learn at the speed of `***O(n)\***` rather than `***O(n\*2)\***`. This blog is all about building your own philosophies. So without further, a do here are mine.

### Code What You Know

Code is, despite what anyone says, an art form, and as developers of art, we must perfect our craft. Take For example code challenges like on Leet Code or Hacker Rank. The user receives a problem like this 

Given

and poor performance developers learn faster when they, use code they understand. coding what you know will improve your understanding of high-level tools, and will help you have more dynamize when working, in the next section will go into what it means to learn dynamically.



### Dynamic Learning

dynamic learning is like dynamic code only broader and bundled. in order to apply, you have to search for concepts that can be streamlined across everything you do. dynamic learning is similar to a metaphor It is more difficult to learn dynamic concepts, but unlike tools/keywords these concepts will serve you not only at your job but also in everyday situations. You will learn faster, it will be easier to find answers, communicate, and avoid misinformation which we will cover more in the next section.

### Fact Check

We all need to be receptive and open to criticism, both you and me. Always double or triple-check what people are telling you. Hear what people tell you then fact check them before adopting it as true Accuracy is very important to Clients, employers, and society in general.

Too many times have I felt ashamed that I listen to someone who had not a clue what they were teaching. When you fact-check people you not only become more reliable but you also learn topics in a deeper way. Fact-checking is difficult as we can feel like there is to much info to absorb to understand this is where I utilize the rabbit hole technique which will go over in the next section.

### Rabbit Hole

Rabbit Hole is a technique I stand by despite that everyone says it is bad. However, it does take practice and consistency to perfect. The deeper you go, the harder it is to climb out. But when you do you’ll feel like your a dam genius. Be careful to stay in line with the goal, if you do you’ll start feeling like your learning faster. Rabbit Hole is not for everyone, as it does take a lot of organization to stay in line with your goal. But for those who don’t have a problem with self-management, it is a great way to visualize what you know and feel confident in your practices in the next section will talk about visualization.

### Pen to Paper

Pen to Paper is my favorite way to visualize code. setting away from the computer to practice how you visualize code. get a whiteboard it is cheaper in the long run. Pen to paper is fun, effective, and can really put things into perspective Pen to paper is something I really think will benefit everyone, especially when doing it as a team of two or three. Aswell it can help you deal with failure which will go over more in the next section.

### Failure is Foremost

Failure is good. people tend to be a bit self-deprecating about messing up, but failing is just another way of building your skills. Once wrote Failure is foremost, and success is secondary, which accentually means the failure is more important than success Failure can lead to great achievements weather your so and so, when embracing failure, you gain capacity and with that you become more resilient to negativity which will affect your mental health greatly and will touch on that more in the next section.

### Health First

Here we go, health is always the most important thing that you can do for yourself. Don’t your job as an excuse to be unhealthy Healthy developers are better at their job and always outperform unhealthy people. If you only have one takeaway from this article let it be healthy. To be a great web developer you must build your own philosophies. When you build your own schools of practice you become more elite.

### Conclusion

