# Data Structures in JavaScript, Strings and a little Node.js 

> **a note before the show**

I’ve made it a personal mission of mine to try and counter act the modern day scammer such as Gurus as some would put it. So lease don’t by into tech GURU mumbo Jumbo, always fact check me and everyone else who gives you advise. I’m no tech wizard but Gurus are Perhaps the most unqualified educators out there. That being said I want to talk to you about data “The Tech Interview.”

## Love What you do Or Don’t do it “PLEASE!!”

The Tech interview is extremely misunderstood. A lot of Gurus Have no Idea what they are talking about when it comes to programing and it can be difficult to distinguish Gurus from Honest hard working programmers just trying to make a little dough on the side. I catch myself wondering why any Developer would want to create a YouTube/Twitter/LinkedIn etc. why wouldn’t they be coding more or learning more. When you think about the amount of effort it takes to gain an audience and how much time you spend marketing you brand and editing videos how do you find the time to stay up to date. My thought is that they **A:** don’t actually like being a developer and don’t want to learn something else or **B**: those who can’t do teach, right? isn’t that how the old saying goes. But I have a better conclusion. There is a whole Pyramid of half-baked developers who learn the bare-minimum to teach code to people. Than they pawn off this Idea that you can learn code really easy and live happily ever after but that's just not true, sorry.

Something that has always been ringing in the back of my mind is the phrase “the pursuit of happiness”. That is what they are selling but if you don’t enjoy the pursuit of what you do you’ll never be happy. So please to anyone who is trying to become a developer and is learning off YouTube videos and is literally counting the amount of hours they spend coding, give it up. I love what I do I mean “LOVE!”, and that is something the is consistently disvalued in the industry because so many people become developers for all the wrong reasons. Don’t be a victim to gurus who lie about there understanding of code, because once you reach there level you’ll realize that Developing is an infinite paradox of learning and it won’t stop and that is what being a developer means.

Okay with my Rant out of the way, lets talk shop. If your serious about code you have to build your own philosophy. When it comes to data structures and  algorithms mine is “don’t write what you don’t know”. What do I mean by this well lets look at and example. Lets says your being interviewed for a role at a tech company and they ask you to sort an array of strings alphabetically.

This is the array.

```js
const vocab = ["intelligent", "automatic", "clever", "radical", "serious", "abstruse"];
```

So we can approach this from to angles, the first being a really clean way.

```js
const alphabetizeList = (arr) => {
  return arr.sort()
}
console.log(alphabetizeList(vocab))
// => ['abstruse', 'automatic', 'clever', 'intelligent', 'radical', 'serious']
```

Now This is a good way to sort an array in JavaScript and probably the most efficient, probably. However, what if the interviewer was to asked how the sort method works. If you know how simply explain and write some sudo-code but if you don’t you’ll look pretty bad. Why does this make you look bad. Because you “didn’t code what you know.” This only explained that you can remember a scenario and execute a procedure, by procedure I mean “your memorized instructions to solve a problem.” Which is the like the worst for of programing the exists. Developers don’t need good memorization.

A good Developers apply what the know, to solve problems they don’t understand how to fix. You will never ever remember every solution to every problem, you just won’t. New challenges present themselves everyday and you won’t understand how to solve them every time. That is why it is good to “code what you know” because you’ll always we applying your “problem solving” skills rather than you ability to memorize “procedures.”

So what do you do if you don’t know how the `sort` method works simple. Apply what you know, and if you don’t fully understand what I’m about to explain go back to the basics and learn more. My advise is the “Rabbit Whole” method every time you don’t understand something, research if you don’t understand the research, research so more. If the topic is to complex, take it down a level repeat that step until you make some progress.

Now, if you have some what of an understanding of ascii this will make a lot of since.

